- A somewhat common theme should be identified
by this point.
We find that in many cases the process that make running,
deploying and troubleshooting an application much easier
can also be used to exploit an application.
Configuration of our application is another such case.
So what is configuration?
To SANS for instance, secure configurations apply
to the systems and servers.
It's the software and operating systems
the machines are running on.
It's definitely critical to keep systems patched.
But from a development perspective,
this isn't configuration.
When I talk about securing your configuration,
I'm referring to the feature flags, options,
and other data elements that your application needs to run,
but they can be optionally configured
at startup or runtime.
Many times as developers,
we want to soft rollout of features
through the use of feature flags,
or provide ways to put the application
into a higher state of logging.
Inherently, these features are not bad on their own,
however they can expose the system.
For instance, if you're developing a feature
and want to roll it out to beta testers that you trust,
you may put a feature flag in place.
Your beta testers have the documentation
to turn that feature on.
But you acknowledge that it may still have bugs.
If those bugs expose the system to attack,
compromise, or some other vulnerability,
you have now exposed that application.
Likewise, if you expose backing service URLs
through configuration that can be modified
by the user, or worse an attacker,
you can trick the application into exposing information
by simply changing the URL.
Mitigating these attacks is actually relatively easy.
First off, consider packaging beta versions
of your software separately and deliver them
to your trusted beta testers directly.
This will reduce the risk of feature flags
exposing software that isn't ready for primetime.
Also be careful of what functionality you expose
through configuration.
If the configuration exposes where sensitive information
or application information goes, or how it is exposed,
reconsider how that configuration is set.
If an attacker can identify how to modify the level,
type, or location of this information,
they can use it to expose details of your system,
or your users.
Consider data in the database, such as preferences as well.
In a thick application where the database is embedded
or on the local file system,
preferences act as raw configuration flags.
Attackers can manipulate this data
to expose an attack vector into your application stack.
One final place to consider configuration
is in your runtime itself.
For instance, if you are using an application server
to run your application,
it's default configuration will most likely expose
too much information about your application.
You should apply best practices
from organizations like OWASP when configuring your runtime
to prevent information disclosure
that could be used to attack your application.
Once again, it comes down to common sense.
Only expose options you need to expose.
Don't rely on configuration
for handling sensitive flows and processes.
Protect your internal processes,
especially sensitive ones.
And don't flex their behavior based
on configuration or preferences.